{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 KC Health CORE is a collaborative initiative between Children\'92s Mercy Hospital and the Center for Economic Information at the University of Missouri, Kansas City created to investigate the geographic disparity of pediatric health outcomes. This analysis will use pediatric asthma data from 2000-2012 geocoded to street centerlines based on the patients\'92 home address at the time of admission. The data come from a retrospective collection of pediatric asthma encounters within the Children\'92s Mercy Hospital network. The original medical records were formatted according to Table \\ref\{tab:original-asthma-data\}.\
\\begin\{table\}\
\\caption\{Structure of the original pediatric asthma data records submitted by CMH to UMKC-CEI. \\label\{tab:original-asthma-data\}\
\\centering\
\\begin\{tabular\}\{ll\}\
\\toprule \
Category & Attributes \\\\\
\\midrule \
Diagnosis & Date of admission \\\\\
& ICD-9 code \\\\\
& Event account number \\\\\
& Patient medical record number (MRN) \\\\\
& Patient residential address \\\\\
\\midrule\
Demographics & Birthdate \\\\\
& Sex \\\\\
& Race \\\\\
& Ethnicity \\\\\
\\midrule\
Visit characteristics & Payment type \\\\\
& Patient class \\\\\
\\bottomrule\
\\end\{tabular\}\
\\end\{table\}\
The data were further classified into three severity levels according to the ICD-9 diagnoses codes (International Classification of Diseases, 9\\textsuperscript\{th\} revision) and the patient class. The patient class records both the location and the type of treatment received by the patient\'96e.g. controlled vs. acute care, inpatient vs. outpatient, etc.\'96 \
\
}