{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The Kansas City metropolitan area as delineated by the United States Census Bureau is located at 39.0398\'b0N latitude and 94.5949\'b0W longitude and spans two states and six counties: Johnson and Wyandotte Counties in Kansas, and Platte, Clay, Cass, and Jackson Counties in Missouri. The K\'f6ppen climate classification is humid subtropical (Cfa), with rainfall year round, averaging 964mm annually. The annual temperature average is 12.8\'b0C, with a maximum average high of 26.1\'b0C in July and a minimum average low of -2\'b0C in January (https://en.climate-data.org/location/715044).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The Kansas City metro area exhibits characteristic patterns of urban sprawl, which is generally defined as \'93geographic expansion over large areas, low-density land use, low land-use mix, low connectivity, and heavy reliance on automobiles relative to other modes of travel\'94  \\cite\{Stone2010\} showing a 55 percent increase in built area between 1972 and 2001 \\cite\{Ji2008\}.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Kansas City metro area  had an estimated population of 2,142,419 in 2018, a 5 percent increase from 2000. An estimated 24.2% of the population are under the age of 18. 73.9% of the population under the age of 18 are identified as white alone, 7.4% as black alone, 0.3% as American Indian alone, 3.2% as asian alone, 0.4% as native Hawaiian alone, and 2.6% as some other race alone. 6.9% of the population identify as two or more races and 11.7% identify as hispanic or latino of any race. In 2018, 5.1% of children under the age of 18 lived in households with income below the poverty level and 7.6% lived in households receiving some kind of public assistance.  31.4% live in single parent households (https://data.census.gov/cedsci). \
}